For a long time, new and tech were synonymous with good. Technological progress would make everything better, and there was

The straw that broke this camel's back was the Apple Watch. Series 4, I think. Not long after buying the watch, I felt self-conscious and embarrassed wearing it. Just how unnecessary it was stood out to me more than any other unnecessary gadget I had bought in the past. I sold it a few days later.

I'd reached a sort of tech zenith, or perhaps it was the nadir, and I started slowly to


-

Now I want to reconsider my internet usage. I've been 'reading' the internet every day for decades. Why? It's just new links, new articles, new posts every single day. There's no time to digest. And how much of what I am reading is fast food, prepared almost as quickly as I consume it?

Every new thing is just piling up, half considered. I have a house with books and films and games that I already own - pick those up first!

If I want to read, watch or play something then I check for reviews and comments about whether it's 'good' before I even begin. If the general consensus is that it's not, then I don't bother. There are favourite stories and films from my childhood that I would never have touched if I took this attitude.

When I want to start a project I spend so much time reading about the topic that my enthusiasm is gone before I even begin.

I won't stop using the internet entirely, but I have to place some guidelines.

OK
1. Work.
2. Personal/household admin - banking, utilities, limited shopping.
3. Contacting friends and family. Occasional online games with friends.
4. Online classes (Japanese & Italian) and video/text for language learning.
5. Mastodon - I like the community I have joined, but I will limit reading to once per week.
6. Specific tutorials/instructions/references - decide in advance what I am looking for.
7. Email... but start unsubscribing from stuff.

NOT OK
1. Recipes: we already have cookbooks!
2. News. Sarah will tell me.
3. Twitter, Instagram, endless feeds.
4. Reddit, Hacker News, Kottke - sites I read almost every day.
5. Everything else.


===

LANGUAGE


JAPAN
As a result of a good friend moving to Japan, and me later studying aikido I've been to Japan three times.
